.\" Copyright 2000 Simon White (s_a_white@email.com)
.\" Copyright 2000 Mikko Kilponen (mikil@uni.kaapeli.net)
.\" Copyright 2012 Leandro Nini (drfiemost@users.sourceforge.net)
.TH SIDPLAYFP 1 "18 March 2012" "SID Player Application"
.SH NAME
SIDPLAYFP \- Sidplayfp is a SID-chip emulator for playing Commodore 64 music.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sidplayfp
.I [ OPTIONS... ]
.B <datafile>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sidplayfp is a music player that emulates various components from a Commodore 64 (C64) computer.  The result is a program which can load and execute C64 machine code programs which produce music and sound.  Sidplayfp has been designed for accuracy which results in a much higher cpu usage.  Additional playback modes have however been provided to allow playback on low specification machines at the cost of accuracy, but it still has a higher cpu demand than Sidplay.
.SH SIDPLAYFP OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\--help|-h\fR
Display help.
.TP
\fB\-f<num>\fR
Set frequency in Hz (default: 44100).
.TP
\fB\-nf\fR
No filter emulation.  This will reduce CPU overhead at the cost of reduced sound quality.
.TP
\fB\-o<num>\fR
Select track number (default: preset).
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Stereo Hardware support.  For Sidplay the channels for the sid will be split into left and right creating a stereo effect.  The same effect is present for Sidplayfp unless the tune is identified as stereo.  If this is the case then sid 1 and 2 become the left and right channels respectively.  For Sidplay other options are provided to produce special effects when in stereo mode, but Sidplayfp does not as yet support these.
.TP
\fB\-v[num]\fR
Verbose output while playing.
.TP
\fB\-b<num>\fR
Set start time in [mins:]secs format (compatible with sid2wav).
.TP
\fB\-ds<addr>\fR
Force dual sid environment by adding a second chip at specified address.
This forces emulation of  2 sid-chips for stereo playback
even if datafile is identified as only being mono.  This occurs
in the case of the stereo prg format as currently there is no way
to identify them.  Stereo MUS and SID files are however automatically
detected.
The second sid may be installed in the 0xD420-0xD7FF or 0xDE00-0xDFFF
address range.
Address may be specified in exadecimal (e.g -ds0xd420) or decimal
(e.g. -ds54304) format.
.TP
\fB\-u<num>\fR
Mute a channel.  May be used more than one time.  Channel 1 to 3 are for the first SID chip while channels from 4 to 6 are for the second one on stereo tunes.
.TP
\fB\-p<num>\fR
Set bit precision for wav saving. The default is 32 (32 bit float), but can be set to 16 to create 16 bit little endian wavs.
.TP
\fB\-o<l|s>\fR
Option 'l' will select continuous track looping while 's' will select the current track
instead of all.  This option can be combined with the track selection to
form -ols<num>.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Quiet output while playing (opposite of verbose).
.TP
\fB\-s<l|r>\fR
Playback the left or right stereo channel only.
.TP
\fB\-t<num>\fR
Set play length in [mins:]secs format (0 is endless).
.TP
\fB\-v<n|p>[f]\fR
Set VIC clock speed.  'n' is NTSC (America, 60Hz) and 'p' is PAL (Europe, 50Hz).  Providing an 'f' will prevent speed fixing that tries to compensate automatically for the speed difference.  Removing speed fixing simulates what happens on a real C64.  Options can be written as: -vnf or -vn -vf.
.TP
\fB\-m<o|n>[f]\fR
Set SID chip model.  'o' is the old 6581 and 'n' is the new 8580.  Providing an 'f' will force the selected model overriding the one specified from the tune.
.TP
\fB\-r<i|r>[f]\fR
Set resampling mode.  'i' is interpolation (less expensive) and 'r' resampling (accurate).  Providing an 'f' will provide faster resampling sacrificing quality.  Fast resampling is available only for reSID emulation.  Options can be written as: -rif or -ri -rf.
.TP
\fB\-w[name]|--wav[name]\fR
Create WAV-file.  The default output filename is <datafile>[n].wav where [n] is the tune number should there be more than one in the sid.  This allows batch conversion of sid tunes without them overwriting each other.  By providing a name you override this default behavior.  The output file will be <name> with no tune number is added and <name> IS NOT checked for or appended with a legal wav file extension.
.TP
\fB\--resid\fR
Use Dag Lem's reSID emulation engine.
.TP
\fB\--residfp\fR
Use Antti Lankila's reSIDfp emulation engine.
.TP
\fB\--hardsid\fR
Use HardSID device.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sidplayfp.ini(5)

.RS
.SH NOTES
ROM dumps are no longer embedded but must be supplied by the user. By default <command>sidplayfp</command> will look for the files under $XDG_DATA_HOME (or $HOME/.local/share/sidplayfp/ if not defined) on Linux and C:\\Documents and Settings\\username\\Application Data\\sidplayfp\\ on Windows. You can override the defaults by changing the settings in sidplayfp.ini(5). The only mandatory ROM is the kernal, basic and chargen are optional and most tune should work fine without.
.SH OTHER INFORMATION
Sidplayfp Homepage:
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/sidplay-residfp/
.br
Sidplay2 homepage:
    http://sidplay2.sourceforge.net/
.br
High Voltage Sid Collection (HVSC):
    http://hvsc.c64.org/
.SH AUTHORS
sidplay2     - Simon White <sidplay2@yahoo.com>
.br
sidplay      - Michael Schwendt <sidplay@geocities.com>
.br
reSID engine - Dag Lem <resid@nimrod.no>
.br
reSIDfp engine - Antti Lankila <alankila@bel.fi>
.br
man-page     - Mikko Kilponen <mikil@uni.kaapeli.net>
