.\" Copyright 2012 Leandro Nini (drfiemost@users.sourceforge.net)
.TH SIDPLAYFP.INI 5 "18 March 2012" "SID Player Application"
.SH NAME
\fBsindplayfp.ini\fR \- Configuration file for \fBsidplayfp\fR(1).
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes the options available for the configuration file of Sidplayfp.
It is composed by a number of sections, each one composed by a section name, enclosed by square brackets, followed by a list of \fI<parameter>\fR=\fI<value>\fR lines.
.TP
\fBsidplayfp.ini\fR supports the following sections:
.TP
\fB[SIDPlayfp]\fR \- Generic configuration
.TP
\fB[Console]\fR \- Console appearance configuration
.TP
\fB[Audio]\fR \- Audio output configuration
.TP
\fB[Emulation]\fR \- Emulation engine parameters

.LP
All options and values are described in detail below.
.LP
For any of the following parameter, if it's specified more than one time the last entry encountered will be used.
.LP
\fBNOTE\fR: if any of these options is specified outside its section, it will be \fIignored\fR.
.SH SIDPlayfp
.br

.TP
\fBVersion\fR=\fI<number>\fR
Configuration version
.br

.TP
\fBSonglength Database\fR=\fI<path>\fR
Full path for the Songlength DB. Should point to the DOCUMENTS/Songlengths.txt file under the HVSC collection path.
.P
.RS
On *NIX systems if this value is not set, sidplayfp will try
$PREFIX/share/sidplayfp/Songlengths.txt .
.RE
.br

.TP
\fBDefault Play Length\fR=\fImm:ss\fR
Default play time if Songlength Database is not found.
.br

.TP
\fBDefault Record Length\fR=\fImm:ss\fR
Default recording time when writing wave files if Songlength Database is not found.
.br

.TP
\fBKernal Rom\fR=\fI<path>\fR
Full path for the Kernal Rom file. This is the most important rom and should always be provided, although many tunes will still work without.
By default the program will look for a \fIkernal\fR file under the following locations:
.IP \[bu]
$XDG_DATA_HOME/sidplayfp/
on *NIX systems where XDG_DATA_HOME is defined.
.IP \[bu]
$HOME/.local/share/sidplayfp/
on *NIX systems where XDG_DATA_HOME is not defined.
.IP \[bu]
$PREFIX/share/sidplayfp
on *NIX systems when not found in the above directories.
.IP \[bu]
%CSIDL_APPDATA%\\sidplayfp\\
on Windows systems where CSIDL_APPDATA is defined.
.IP \[bu]
%USERPROFILE%\\Application Data\\sidplayfp\\
on Windows systems where CSIDL_APPDATA is not defined.
.br

.TP
\fBBasic Rom\fR=\fI<path>\fR
Full path for the Basic Rom file. This is mostly useful for playing BASIC tunes.
By default the program will look for a \fIbasic\fR file under the same locations as above.
.br

.TP
\fBChargen Rom\fR=\fI<path>\fR
Full path for the Character generator Rom file. Almost useless for playback of tunes, but included for completeness.
By default the program will look for a \fIchargen\fR file under the same locations as above.
.br

.SH Console
.TP
\fBAnsi\fR=\fItrue|false\fR
Use ANSI escape sequences to provide colored output if supported by the terminal.
.br

.TP
\fBChar Top Left\fR=\fI<char>\fR
Character for the top left corner.
.br

.TP
\fBChar Top Right\fR=\fI<char>\fR
Character for the top right corner.
.br

.TP
\fBChar Bottom Left\fR=\fI<char>\fR
Character for the bottom left corner.
.br

.TP
\fBChar Bottom Right\fR=\fI<char>\fR
Character for the bottom right corner.
.br

.TP
\fBChar Vertical\fR=\fI<char>\fR
Character for vertical lines.
.br

.TP
\fBChar Horizontal\fR=\fI<char>\fR
Character for horizontal lines.
.br

.TP
\fBChar Junction Left\fR=\fI<char>\fR
Character for left junctions.
.br

.TP
\fBChar Junction Right\fR=\fI<char>\fR
Character for right junctions.
.br

.SH Audio
.TP
\fBFrequency\fR=\fI<number>\fR
Playback frequency expressed in Hertz. Default is 48000
.br

.TP
\fBChannels\fR=\fI<number>\fR
Number of channels, 1 for mono and 2 for stereo playback. Default is 1
.br

.TP
\fBBitsPerSample\fR=\fI<16|32>\fR
Number of bits ber sample, used only for wav output. Using values other than the ones specified will produce invalid output.
.br

.SH Emulation
.TP
\fBEngine\fR=\fI<RESIDFP|RESID|HARDSID|NONE>\fR
Set the SID emulation engine. Default is RESIDFP.
.br

.TP
\fBC64Model\fR=\fI<PAL|NTSC|OLD_NTSC|DREAN>\fR
Default c64 model to use if not specified by tune, PAL for european PAL-B model, NTSC for american/japanese NTSC-M models,
OLD_NTSC for NTSC-M models with old video chip and DREAN for argentinian PAL-N model. Default is PAL.
.br

.TP
\fBForceC64Model\fR=\fItrue|false\fR
Force the selected c64 model even if the tune states otherwise.
.br

.TP
\fBSidModel\fR=\fI<MOS6581|MOS8580>\fR
Default SID chip model to use if not specified by tune, old MOS 6581 or newer MOS 8580.
.br

.TP
\fBForceSidModel\fR=\fItrue|false\fR
Force the selected SID chip model even if the tune states otherwise.
.br

.TP
\fBUseFilter\fR=\fItrue|false\fR
Enable/disable the emulation of the SID filter.
.br

.TP
\fBFilterBias\fR=\fI<number>\fR
Controls the filter bias in the ReSID emulation.
The bias is given in millivolts, and a maximum reasonable control range is approximately -500 to 500, the default value is 0
.br

.TP
\fBFilterCurve6581\fR=\fI<number>\fR
Controls the filter curve for the 6581 model in the ReSIDfp emulation.
Ranges from 0.0 (light) to 1.0 (dark), the default value is 0.5
.br

.TP
\fBFilterCurve8580\fR=\fI<number>\fR
Controls the filter curve for the 8580 model in the ReSIDfp emulation.
Value is expressed in Hertz and the default is 12500
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sidplayfp(1)

.RS
.SH OTHER INFORMATION
Sidplayfp Homepage:
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/sidplay-residfp/
.br
Sidplay2 homepage:
    http://sidplay2.sourceforge.net/
.br
High Voltage Sid Collection (HVSC):
    http://hvsc.c64.org/
.SH AUTHORS
sidplay2     - Simon White <sidplay2@yahoo.com>
.br
sidplay      - Michael Schwendt <sidplay@geocities.com>
.br
reSID engine - Dag Lem <resid@nimrod.no>
.br
reSIDfp engine - Antti Lankila <alankila@bel.fi>
.br
man-page     - Mikko Kilponen <mikil@uni.kaapeli.net>
